---
title: The Tour Begins
categories: [General]
comments: true
---
When I was a wee lad in the 1980s, I was introducted to role-playing games and fell in love with them. All the kids in the apartment complex would get together and play all sorts of systems: Dungeons & Dragons (Basic and AD&D), Car Wars, Marvel Super Heroes, and Star Frontiers to name a few.

Of course, all good things come to an end. The [Satanic Panic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Satanic_panic) was very much a real thing and my very religious stepmother forbade me from having any D&D-related items in her house. Other kids moved away. And I was already a big enough nerd in high school without drawing more attention to myself with roleplaying. The public perception of tabletop gaming at the time was definitely more Revenge of the Nerds and less Critical Role.

I still followed RPGs from afar. I got into playing and coding [MUDs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-user_dungeon) in college, and after graduation got into MMOs as they became popular. I even would buy the occasional book when say, a new edition of D&D came out, strictly for curiosity's sake as I knew I'd never actually play.

Fast forward two or three decades and my very non-nerdy wife sees a clip of people playing D&D on some reality show. Completely out of character for her, she says that it looks like fun and asks if we can try it. I jump at the chance, giving myself a crash course in 5E and preparing a one-shot for the family. That afternoon game turned into a few years of campaigns before fizzling out as my son and wife moved on to other interests. But the whole time I was immersing myself in this new golden age of tabletop rpgs. 5e homebrew, OSR, NSR, PBtA, FitD, BoB... I devoured anything I could get my hands on, from the most polished published books to ashcan pdfs to copies of someone's heartbreak game living in a Google doc. I loved it all.

Running the game had been fun, but I really wanted a chance to play again as I had decades earlier. With dedicated Discord servers, countless Reddit groups, virtual table tops and mainstream acceptance of the hobby, it's easier than ever to play whatever you want these days. But social anxiety and crippling shyness kept me from reaching out. Finally, I worked up the courage and signed up for a seat for a one-shot of Monster of the Week a local bookstore. When I told my family I was actually leaving the house to play a game with a bunch of strangers they thought I was joking, even up to the day it was scheduled. I wasn't sure myself, but I did manage to make it to that game. It was awkward and a bit chaotic, and also one of the best things I had done in years. Since then, I've been back to that bookstore many times and played more MotW, as well as Dungeon World, Candela Obscura, and Dungeon Crawl Classics. They also regularly run 5E, AD&D, Daggerheart, Legend of the Five Rings, Mothership and random systems as one-shots. 

I'm lucky enough to have found a welcoming place that runs a wide variety of games, multiple times a week, but there are still far more interesting games out there than I could ever hope to find a group for. So that's where this project comes in. I want to look at some of the games I've collected over the years and at least get a glimpse of some of what they have to offer. Inspired by the yearly #CharacterCreationChallenge, I'd like to sit down and go through character creation in multiple systems. With Mythic and countless other GMEs available, I'd like to take some of them out to kick the tires a bit in some solo sessions. I may also end up sharing some of the countless tools I tend to create, because why spend an hour prepping a session when you can spend several days writing a tool to do the same thing? I mostly want this place for preservation and to force myself to be somewhat organized with all of this, so that I can look back on things I've done with this hobby when I'm old(er) and gray(er). I don't necessarily expect any of this to be interesting outside of an audience of one, but for anyone else who finds this, welcome to the tour.
